Exoplanets in interstellar Space
Vishal Shanmugan Nadar(G01276965)
1. Introduction
The information describes how the flux (light intensity) of thousands of stars changes over time. There is a binary label of 2 or 1 for each star. 2 meant that there was evidence of at least one exoplanet orbiting the star; other sightings are of multi-planet systems. As you might expect, while planets orbit stars that emit light, planets themselves do not. If the star is observed for several months or years, the flux may occasionally "dim" on a regular basis (the light intensity). This is proof that the star might be surrounded by an orbiting body; such a star could be a "candidate" system. Further study of our candidate system, for example by a satellite that captures light at a different wavelength, could solidify the belief that the candidate can be 'confirmed'. Flux Diagram In the above diagram, a star is orbited by a blue planet. At t = 1, the starlight intensity drops because it is partially obscured by the planet, given our position. The starlight rises back to its original value at t = 2. The graph in each box shows the measured flux (light intensity) at each time interval.
The data presented here are cleaned and are derived from observations made by the NASA Kepler space telescope. The Mission is ongoing - for instance data from Campaign 12 was released on 8th March 2017. Over 99% of this dataset originates from Campaign 3. To boost the number of exoplanet-stars in the dataset, confirmed exoplanets from other campaigns were also included. To be clear, all observations from Campaign 3 are included. And in addition to this, confirmed exoplanet-stars from other campaigns are also included. The datasets were prepared late-summer 2016. Campaign 3 was used because 'it was felt' that this Campaign is unlikely to contain any undiscovered (i.e., wrongly labelled) exoplanets. NASA open sources the original Kepler Mission data and it is hosted at the Mikulski Archive. After being beamed down to Earth, NASA applies de-noising algorithms to remove artefacts generated by the telescope. The data - in the. fits format - is stored online. And with the help of a seasoned astrophysicist, anyone with an internet connection can embark on a search to find and retrieve the datafiles from the Archive.
2. Methods and Techniques
The dataset we are planning to use for this project is available here:- https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/keplersmachines/kepler-labelled-time-series-data. This dataset is of about 291 MB in size, and it consists of 3198 features. There are two CSV which are exoTrain.csv and expTest.csv. The exoTrain.csv consists of train data in which there are 5087 rows, 3198 features and label column with values 1 and 2 and 37 confirmed exoplanet-stars and 5050 non-exoplanet-stars. The exoTest.csv consists of test data in which there
